
## Finding master-key attacks in ABE schemes

In this section, we utilize the ACABELLA command-line tool to demonstrate
how to find master-key attacks in ABE schemes. We first introduce the type
of corruptable variables that we can use in this case. 

Further, we recommend the reader to read the supported corruption models
for MA-ABE schemes in the respective section.

### Type of corruptable variables in master key attacks

When using corruption models in master key attacks, the variables
that we receive from either CAs or AAs can be categorized using the enum type
`MasterKeyCorruptedVariable`:

- MPK_CA: The variable is part of the corruption of the Central Authority (CA).
- MPK_AA: The variable belongs to an Attribute Authority j. It will be used to obtain the master key of an AA[i].

The type of corrupted variable is used in the JSON input files for ACABELLA, for instance:

```json
{
    "scheme_id": "yj12",
    "analysis": "master_key",
    "k": ["r * b / bp + alpha_i/bp", "r"],
    "master_key": "alpha_i",
    "unknown_vars" :  ["alpha_i", "r"],
    "corruption_model" : "mixed_AA_corr",
    "corruptable_vars": [ { "type":"MPK_AA", "var":"b/bp" }],
    "MPK_CA": ["r"],
    "MPK_AA": ["alpha_i", "b/bp"],
    "MPK_vars": [],
    "GP_vars": ["b", "bp"]
}
```

### Attacking LXXH16

The LXXH16 scheme [@lxxh16] is a multi-authority ABE scheme for the Cloud, based on five different
entities. 

**Note**
> In this section we only describe the variables that are interesting for testing if 
> we can find a master key attack on the scheme.

- CA: It generates the system parameters and the attributes public keys. Register users
attribute-authorities and creates a uid and an aid respectively. The CA is not involved
in the generation of secret keys related to attributes.

Once the system parameters have been chosen (pairing groups, group generators, etc.), 
the CA generates the value \(a \in_R Z_p\) as master key and computes the master public key (MPK)
as \(g^a\).

The CA will generate a uid \(\in_R Z_p\) for each user of the system as well as an aid
for identifying the AAs involved where aid \(\in_R Z_p\).

In summary, if the CA is corrupted, we could obtain the parameter \(a\) and that could perhaps help us in performing a master key attack and obtain the
attribute-authority private key \(\alpha_i\).

- AA: It manages the attribute generation and secret key sassociated to the attributes.

During the `AASetup` algorithm each AA i generates a master secret key MSK AA = 
\(\alpha_i\) and an MPK AA = \(e(g, g)^{\alpha_i}\).

- Data owner: It uses MA-ABE to encrypt a plaintext with a certain access policy.
- User: Identified by the uid generated by the CA. It can decrypt a ciphertext if it can satisfiy the respective access policy.

If they have the right permissions in the system, the can ask secret keys related to attributes that they can use to fuilfill an access policy and decrypt a ciphertext. We focus on those components of the secret keys during the key generation algorithm that are attribute-independent: 

The AA generates the random value \(b_i \in Z_p\). Then, it obtains the attribute key component \(K_i = g^{\alpha_i} \cdot g^{a \cdot b_i}\) and the component 
\(L_i = g^{b_i}\).

- Cloud server: It provides the storage capabilities to deploy the system.

#### Obtaining the involved encodings

- For the CA, we have the \(MPK_{CA}\) encoding as \(a \in_R Z_p\) that we rename as \(b\) (we use \(b\) to describe public key parameters in the scheme). We consider that we can obtain this value via corruption of the CA.

- Every AA contains the encoding \(\alpha_i\).

- For every key generated by an AA, the user obtains the encodings: \(b_i\), that we rename as \(r\) (we use \(r\) to denote random variables associated to keys) and \(\alpha_i + b\cdot r\).

#### Generating inputs for ACABELLA

Based on the encodings we identified, we can prepare JSON inputs for ACABELLA.

We'll start with an input file where corruption is not performed, and where we try to find \(\alpha_i\) based on the available encodings as a normal user:

```json
{
    "scheme_id": "lxhh16",
    "analysis": "master_key",
    "k": ["alpha_i + r * b", "r"],
    "master_key": "alpha_i",
    "unknown_vars" :  ["alpha_i", "b", "r"],
    "corruption_model" : "NoCorruption",
    "corruptable_vars": [],
    "MPK_CA": ["b"],
    "MPK_AA": ["alpha_i"],
    "MPK_vars": [],
    "GP_vars": []
}
```

Using acabella_cmd will report that no attack was found, via `python acabella_cmd.py -a mk -c examples/lxxh16/lxxh16_config_mka_no_corruption.json`.

However, we can suppose that the CA has been corrupted and that we have obtained the MPK CA encoding, \(b\):

```json
{
    "scheme_id": "lxhh16",
    "analysis": "master_key",
    "k": ["alpha_i + r * b", "r"],
    "master_key": "alpha_i",
    "unknown_vars" :  ["alpha_i", "b", "r"],
    "corruption_model" : "mixed_CA_corr",
    "corruptable_vars": [
        { "type":"MPK_CA", "var":"b" }
         ],
    "MPK_CA": ["b"],
    "MPK_AA": ["alpha_i"],
    "MPK_vars": [],
    "GP_vars": []
}
```

**Note**
> We have chosen the mixed_CA_corr corruption model, that is, a system where multiple AAs and a CA is used. Within this corruption model, we associated the variable b as a variable of the CA (MPK).

In this case, the output we obtain from ACABELLA is:

```json
[*] ACABELLA cmd tool


[*] Analyzing scheme...



[*] Master key attack results:


List of encodings:
         k0[i][j] : alpha_i + b*r
         k1[i][j] : r

For the corruption of a Central Authority [i] in a model with several Attribute Authorities [j].

Structure of CA/AAs:
        Contents of the CA MPK encodings: [b]
        Contents of the AA MPK encodings: [alpha_i]

List of variables obtained via corruption:
        b from MPK_CA

[*] Master key attack with corruption found: 1*k0[i][j] + -b*k1[i][j]
```

and we have obtained a linar combination of key encodings that allow us to recover the master key of the AA.

### Attacking MGZ19

The MGZ19 scheme [@mgz19] is a multi-authority ABE scheme that uses multiplies CAs and AAs.
We first describe each entity and identify the relevant encodings that we could use in our attack:

- The CA generates the system parameters and execute `CKeyGen`, which generates an identity key \(SK_{GID, S}\) for a user id GID and a set of attributes. Moreover, it generates the parameter r and the component \(g_1^r\), later used by the attribute authorities. We should keep in mind that we can corrupt the CA and recover the \(r\) encoding.
  
- Each AA i generates \(\alpha_i\) and \(t_i \in Z_N\) and assign those values to the master secret key of the AA. The MPK pair of the AA is then represented by \(e(g_1, g_1)^{\alpha_i}\) and \(g_1^{t_i}\).
 
For those registers user, the AA i generates secret keys related to attributes \(SK_{GID,i}\) as \(g_1^{\alpha_i}\cdot(g_1^r)^{t_i}\).

#### Obtaining the involved encodings

- The structure of the CA contains the parameter \(r\).
- Each AA contain a MPK with encodings \(\alpha_i\) and \(t_i\), that we rename as \(b_i\) (related to a public key).
- For ever attribute key generated by an authenticated user, the key-independent part contains the encodings \(\alpha_i + r\cdot b_i\) and \(b_i\).
- If the corruption of the CA is possible, we could obtain \(r\).

#### Generating inputs for ACABELLA

Let's assume that the CA can be corrupted and that we can obtain \(r\) in the following JSON input for ACABELLA:

```json
{
    "scheme_id": "mgz19",
    "analysis": "master_key",
    "k": ["alpha_j + r * b_j", "b_j"],
    "master_key": "alpha_j",
    "unknown_vars" :  ["alpha_j", "b_j", "r"],
    "corruption_model" : "mixed_CA_corr",
    "corruptable_vars": [
        { "type":"MPK_CA", "var":"r" }
         ],
    "MPK_CA": ["r"],
    "MPK_AA": ["alpha_j", "b_j"],
    "MPK_vars": ["b_j"],
    "GP_vars": []
}
```

ACABELLA finds an attack to recover the AA master key:

```json
[*] ACABELLA cmd tool


[*] Analyzing scheme...



[*] Master key attack results:


List of encodings:
         k0[i][j] : alpha_j + b_j*r
         k1[i][j] : b_j

For the corruption of a Central Authority [i] in a model with several Attribute Authorities [j].

Structure of CA/AAs:
        Contents of the CA MPK encodings: [r]
        Contents of the AA MPK encodings: [alpha_j, b_j]

List of variables obtained via corruption:
        r from MPK_CA

[*] Master key attack with corruption found: 1*k0[i][j] + -r*k1[i][j]
```

### Attacking QLZ13

The QLZ13 scheme [@qlz13] is a multi-authority ABE scheme consisting of only attribute-authorities AAs.

During the AA setup algorithm, each authority \(k\) generates:

- \(\alpha_k \in_R Z_p\)
- \(\beta_k \in_R Z_p\)
- For each attribute managed by the authority \(AA_k\), it generates \(g^t_{i, j} \in_R Z_p\).

Thus, the master public key of the AA is composed of: \(Y_k = e(g, g)^{\alpha_k}\), \(Z_k = g^{\beta_k}\), and \(T_{i, j}^k = g^{t^k_{i, j}}\). The master secret key of the AA consists of: \(\alpha_k\), \(\beta_k\), and \(t_{i, j}\).

The users are identified via a global identifier (GID) \(u\), generated \(\in_R Z_p\).

During key generation, the \(AA_k\) generates random values \(r_k\), \(t_k \in_R Z_p\). We are interested in the following attribute-independent key components:

- \(D_{i, 1}^k = g^{\alpha_k} \cdot h^{r_k} \cdot h_1^{\frac{1}{u + \beta_k}}\)
- \(D_o^k = h^{r_k} \cdot h_1^{-t_k}\)
- \(D_i^k = h_1^{t_k + \frac{1}{u + \beta_k}}\)

#### Obtaining the involved encodings

- From every AA \(k\), we identify the encodings \(\alpha_k\) and \(\beta_k\), the latter identified by \(bp\) (\(b\) prime, since is related to a public key encoding and we use the letter \(b\) for those encodings as a convention). We don't consider the \(t_{i, j}^k\) encoding since it is not attribute-independent.
- From the key components generated during key generation, we associated the letter \(x\) to the user identifier \(u\). The \(h\) parameter is identified as \(b\) and the \(h_i\) parameter as \(b_i\). Random exponents \(r_k\) and \(t_k\) and identified by \(r\) and \(rp\) respectively. Hence, we have the following key encodings: \(k_1 = alpha_i + r\cdot b + b_i \cdot (\frac{1}{x + bp})\), \(k_2 = b\cdot r - b_1 \cdot rp\) and \(k_3 = (rp + \frac{1}{x + bp})\cdot b_1\).

#### Generating inputs for ACABELLA

In this case, given the absence of CA and the structure of every AA, there is no much we can obtain via corruption. We can then specify all the encodings in a JSON input file for ACABELLA and try to find master key attacks:

```json
{
    "scheme_id": "qlz13",
    "analysis": "master_key",
    "k": ["alpha_i + r * b + b1 / (x + bp)", "r * b - rp * b1", "(rp + 1 / (x + bp)) * b1"],
    "master_key": "alpha_i",
    "unknown_vars" :  ["alpha_i", "b", "b1", "bp", "r", "rp", "x"],
    "corruption_model" : "NoCorruption",
    "corruptable_vars": [],
    "MPK_CA": [],
    "MPK_AA": ["alpha_i", "bp"],
    "MPK_vars": [],
    "GP_vars": []
}
```

We finds the following attack:

```
[*] ACABELLA cmd tool


[*] Analyzing scheme...



[*] Master key attack results:


List of encodings:
         k0 : alpha_i + b*r + b1/(bp + x)
         k1 : b*r - b1*rp
         k2 : b1*(rp + 1/(bp + x))

Structure of CA/AAs:
        Contents of the CA MPK encodings: []
        Contents of the AA MPK encodings: [alpha_i, bp]

[*] Master key attack found: 1*k0 + -1*k1 + -1*k2
```

### Attacking YJ12

The MA-ABE YJ12 scheme [@yj12] consists of a CA and several AAs.

- During the `Setup` algorithm, the CA generates the system parameters and registers AAs and users. Particularly for the users, it generates an UID \(u \in_R Z_p\) and a public key \(PK_{UID} = g^u\). The `OwnerSetup` algorithm generates the parameters \(\beta\) and \(\r \in_R Z_p\) and obtains the so called \(SK_o\) pair consisting of \(g^{1/\beta}\) and \(r/\beta\). This parameter is sent to every attribute-authority. The CA is fully trusted in the YJ12 scheme.
  
- Finally, every AA generates the public key of each attribute it manages. 

- During the key generation algorithm, each AA generates an attribute-independent key part \(PK_{UID}^{\frac{r}{\beta}}\cdot g^{\frac{\alpha_i}{\beta}}\) which is equivalent to \(\frac{x\cdot r + \alpha_i}{\beta}\).

#### Obtaining the involved encodings

- The CA has generated every public key for the users and contains the parameter u. However it is fully trusted and we don't consider the corruption of the CA.
- Each AA contains \(\frac{1}{\beta}\) and \(\frac{r}{\beta}\), which we rename to 
\(\frac{1}{bp}\) and \(\frac{b}{bp}\) respectively.
- The attribute-independent encodings from key generation are: \(\frac{r\cdot b + \alpha_i}{bp}\) and \(PK_{UID}: r\).

#### Generating inputs for ACABELLA

In this case, the idea is to corrupt one AA \(j\) and use the obtained value \(b/bp\) to attack another authority \(i\), using the mixed AA corruption model. In this case, we can use the following JSON input file:

```json
{
    "scheme_id": "yj12",
    "analysis": "master_key",
    "k": ["r * b / bp + alpha_i/bp", "r"],
    "master_key": "alpha_i",
    "unknown_vars" :  ["alpha_i", "r"],
    "corruption_model" : "mixed_AA_corr",
    "corruptable_vars": [ { "type":"MPK_AA", "var":"b/bp" }],
    "MPK_CA": ["r"],
    "MPK_AA": ["alpha_i", "b/bp"],
    "MPK_vars": [],
    "GP_vars": ["b", "bp"]
}
```

which produces the following attack:

```
[*] ACABELLA cmd tool


[*] Analyzing scheme...



[*] Master key attack results:


List of encodings:
         k0[i] : alpha_i/bp + b*r/bp
         k1[i] : r
         gp : b
         gp : bp

For the corruption of an attribute authority AA[j] and attacking an attribute authority AA[i].

Structure of CA/AAs:
        Contents of the CA MPK encodings: [r]
        Contents of the AA MPK encodings: [alpha_i, b/bp]

List of variables obtained via the corruption of AA[j]:
        b/bp from MPK_AA

[*] Master key attack with corruption found: bp*k0[i] + -b*k1[i]
```

### Advice on finding master key attacks on schemes

- We are interested in the attribute-independent key components generated during the key generation algorithm. 
  
- Schemes adding new capabilities such as traceability and outsourcing are typically prone to errors due to the number of exponents that are generated by the CAs/AAs that are not correctly validated.
  
- Sometimes, schemes that can be attacked via corruption are those where the CA generates exponents that are later utilized by AAs. In some cases, the CA can be corrupted and those values obtained and finally used to recover the master key of a AA. This is the case of the MGZ19 scheme.

- Other times, the CA can kept values that we can use to recover the master key of an AA via a linear combination of encodings. In those cases, it's worth trying to find master key attacks involving the corruption of those values stored by the CA. See for instance the attack against LXXH16.

- Finally, it is possible to corrupt an attribute-authority \(AA_j\) and obtain certain parameter that can enable an attack on a second authority, \(AA_i\) and that allow us to recover its master key \(\alpha_i\). See for instance the YJ12 attack.
