
## Analyzing the security of ABE schemes using the AC17 framework

TODO

### Pair encodings

### The AC17 framework

## Finding master key attacks in ABE schemes

### Master key attacks encodings

TODO



### Attacking LXXH16

The LXXH16 scheme [@lxxh16] is a multi-authority ABE scheme for the Cloud, based on five different
entities. 

**Note**
> In this section we only describe the variables that are interesting for testing if 
> we can find a master key attack on the scheme.

- CA: It generates the system parameters and the attributes public keys. Register users
attribute-authorities and creates a uid and an aid respectively. The CA is not involved
in the generation of secret keys related to attributes.

Once the system parameters have been chosen (pairing groups, group generators, etc.), 
the CA generates the value \(a \in_R Z_p\) as master key and computes the master public key (MPK)
as \(g^a\).

The CA will generate a uid \(\in_R Z_p\) for each user of the system as well as an aid
for identifying the AAs involved where aid \(\in_R Z_p\).

In summary, if the CA is corrupted, we could obtain the parameter \(a\) and that could perhaps help us in performing a master key attack and obtain the
attribute-authority private key \(\alpha_i\).

- AA: It manages the attribute generation and secret key sassociated to the attributes.

During the `AASetup` algorithm each AA i generates a master secret key MSK AA = 
\(\alpha_i\) and an MPK AA = \(e(g, g)^{\alpha_i}\).

- Data owner: It uses MA-ABE to encrypt a plaintext with a certain access policy.
- User: Identified by the uid generated by the CA. It can decrypt a ciphertext if it can satisfiy the respective access policy.

If they have the right permissions in the system, the can ask secret keys related to attributes that they can use to fuilfill an access policy and decrypt a ciphertext. We focus on those components of the secret keys during the key generation algorithm that are attribute-independent: 

The AA generates the random value \(b_i \in Z_p\). Then, it obtains the attribute key component \(K_i = g^{\alpha_i} \cdot g^{a \cdot b_i}\) and the component 
\(L_i = g^{b_i}\).

- Cloud server: It provides the storage capabilities to deploy the system.

#### Obtaining the involved encodings

- For the CA, we have the \(MPK_{CA}\) encoding as \(a \in_R Z_p\) that we rename as \(b\) (we use \(b\) to describe public key parameters in the scheme). We consider that we can obtain this value via corruption of the CA.

- Every AA contains the encoding \(\alpha_i\).

- For every key generated by an AA, the user obtains the encodings: \(b_i\), that we rename as \(r\) (we use \(r\) to denote random variables associated to keys) and \(\alpha_i + b\cdot r\).

#### Generating inputs for ACABELLA

Based on the encodings we identified, we can prepare JSON inputs for ACABELLA.

We'll start with an input file where corruption is not performed, and where we try to find \(\alpha_i\) based on the available encodings as a normal user:

```json
{
    "scheme_id": "lxhh16",
    "analysis": "master_key",
    "k": ["alpha_i + r * b", "r"],
    "master_key": "alpha_i",
    "unknown_vars" :  ["alpha_i", "b", "r"],
    "corruption_model" : "NoCorruption",
    "corruptable_vars": [],
    "MPK_CA": ["b"],
    "MPK_AA": ["alpha_i"],
    "MPK_vars": [],
    "GP_vars": []
}
```

Using acabella_cmd will report that no attack was found, via `python acabella_cmd.py -a mk -c examples/lxxh16/lxxh16_config_mka_no_corruption.json`.

However, we can suppose that the CA has been corrupted and that we have obtained the MPK CA encoding, \(b\):

```json
{
    "scheme_id": "lxhh16",
    "analysis": "master_key",
    "k": ["alpha_i + r * b", "r"],
    "master_key": "alpha_i",
    "unknown_vars" :  ["alpha_i", "b", "r"],
    "corruption_model" : "mixed_CA_corr",
    "corruptable_vars": [
        { "type":"MPK_CA", "var":"b" }
         ],
    "MPK_CA": ["b"],
    "MPK_AA": ["alpha_i"],
    "MPK_vars": [],
    "GP_vars": []
}
```

**Note**
> We have chosen the mixed_CA_corr corruption model, that is, a system where multiple AAs and a CA is used. Within this corruption model, we associated the variable b as a variable of the CA (MPK).

In this case, the output we obtain from ACABELLA is:

```json
[*] ACABELLA cmd tool


[*] Analyzing scheme...



[*] Master key attack results:


List of encodings:
         k0[i][j] : alpha_i + b*r
         k1[i][j] : r

For the corruption of a Central Authority [i] in a model with several Attribute Authorities [j].

Structure of CA/AAs:
        Contents of the CA MPK encodings: [b]
        Contents of the AA MPK encodings: [alpha_i]

List of variables obtained via corruption:
        b from MPK_CA

[*] Master key attack with corruption found: 1*k0[i][j] + -b*k1[i][j]
```

and we have obtained a linar combination of key encodings that allow us to recover the master key of the AA.

### Attacking MGZ19

The MGZ19 scheme [@mgz19] is a multi-authority ABE scheme that uses multiplies CAs and AAs.
We first describe each entity and identify the relevant encodings that we could use in our attack:

- The CA generates the system parameters and execute `CKeyGen`, which generates an identity key \(SK_{GID, S}\) for a user id GID and a set of attributes. Moreover, it generates the parameter r and the component \(g_1^r\), later used by the attribute authorities. We should keep in mind that we can corrupt the CA and recover the \(r\) encoding.
  
- Each AA i generates \(\alpha_i\) and \(t_i \in Z_N\) and assign those values to the master secret key of the AA. The MPK pair of the AA is then represented by \(e(g_1, g_1)^{\alpha_i}\) and \(g_1^{t_i}\).
 
For those registers user, the AA i generates secret keys related to attributes \(SK_{GID,i}\) as \(g_1^{\alpha_i}\cdot(g_1^r)^{t_i}\).

#### Obtaining the involved encodings

- The structure of the CA contains the parameter \(r\).
- Each AA contain a MPK with encodings \(\alpha_i\) and \(t_i\), that we rename as \(b_i\) (related to a public key).
- For ever attribute key generated by an authenticated user, the key-independent part contains the encodings \(\alpha_i + r\cdot b_i\) and \(b_i\).
- If the corruption of the CA is possible, we could obtain \(r\).

#### Generating inputs for ACABELLA

Let's assume that the CA can be corrupted and that we can obtain \(r\) in the following JSON input for ACABELLA:

```json
{
    "scheme_id": "mgz19",
    "analysis": "master_key",
    "k": ["alpha_j + r * b_j", "b_j"],
    "master_key": "alpha_j",
    "unknown_vars" :  ["alpha_j", "b_j", "r"],
    "corruption_model" : "mixed_CA_corr",
    "corruptable_vars": [
        { "type":"MPK_CA", "var":"r" }
         ],
    "MPK_CA": ["r"],
    "MPK_AA": ["alpha_j", "b_j"],
    "MPK_vars": ["b_j"],
    "GP_vars": []
}
```

ACABELLA finds an attack to recover the AA master key:

```json
[*] ACABELLA cmd tool


[*] Analyzing scheme...



[*] Master key attack results:


List of encodings:
         k0[i][j] : alpha_j + b_j*r
         k1[i][j] : b_j

For the corruption of a Central Authority [i] in a model with several Attribute Authorities [j].

Structure of CA/AAs:
        Contents of the CA MPK encodings: [r]
        Contents of the AA MPK encodings: [alpha_j, b_j]

List of variables obtained via corruption:
        r from MPK_CA

[*] Master key attack with corruption found: 1*k0[i][j] + -r*k1[i][j]
```

### Attacking QLZ13

The QLZ13 scheme [@qlz13] is a multi-authority ABE scheme consisting of only attribute-authorities AAs.

During the AA setup algorithm, each authority \(k\) generates:

- \(\alpha_k \in_R Z_p\)
- \(\beta_k \in_R Z_p\)
- For each attribute managed by the authority \(AA_k\), it generates \(g^t_{i, j} \in_R Z_p\).

Thus, the master public key of the AA is composed of: \(Y_k = e(g, g)^{\alpha_k}\), \(Z_k = g^{\beta_k}\), and \(T_{i, j}^k = g^{t^k_{i, j}}\). The master secret key of the AA consists of: \(\alpha_k\), \(\beta_k\), and \(t_{i, j}\).

The users are identified via a global identifier (GID) \(u\), generated \(\in_R Z_p\).

During key generation, the \(AA_k\) generates random values \(r_k\), \(t_k \in_R Z_p\). We are interested in the following attribute-independent key components:

- \(D_{i, 1}^k = g^{\alpha_k} \cdot h^{r_k} \cdot h_1^{\frac{1}{u + \beta_k}}\)
- \(D_o^k = h^{r_k} \cdot h_1^{-t_k}\)
- \(D_i^k = h_1^{t_k + \frac{1}{u + \beta_k}}\)

#### Obtaining the involved encodings

- From every AA \(k\), we identify the encodings \(\alpha_k\) and \(\beta_k\), the latter identified by \(bp\) (\(b\) prime, since is related to a public key encoding and we use the letter \(b\) for those encodings as a convention). We don't consider the \(t_{i, j}^k\) encoding since it is not attribute-independent.
- From the key components generated during key generation, we associated the letter \(x\) to the user identifier \(u\). The \(h\) parameter is identified as \(b\) and the \(h_i\) parameter as \(b_i\). Random exponents \(r_k\) and \(t_k\) and identified by \(r\) and \(rp\) respectively. Hence, we have the following key encodings: \(k_1 = alpha_i + r\cdot b + b_i \cdot (\frac{1}{x + bp})\), \(k_2 = b\cdot r - b_1 \cdot rp\) and \(k_3 = (rp + \frac{1}{x + bp})\cdot b_1\).

#### Generating inputs for ACABELLA

In this case, given the absence of CA and the structure of every AA, there is no much we can obtain via corruption. We can then specify all the encodings in a JSON input file for ACABELLA and try to find master key attacks:

```json
{
    "scheme_id": "qlz13",
    "analysis": "master_key",
    "k": ["alpha_i + r * b + b1 / (x + bp)", "r * b - rp * b1", "(rp + 1 / (x + bp)) * b1"],
    "master_key": "alpha_i",
    "unknown_vars" :  ["alpha_i", "b", "b1", "bp", "r", "rp", "x"],
    "corruption_model" : "NoCorruption",
    "corruptable_vars": [],
    "MPK_CA": [],
    "MPK_AA": ["alpha_i", "bp"],
    "MPK_vars": [],
    "GP_vars": []
}
```

We finds the following attack:

```
[*] ACABELLA cmd tool


[*] Analyzing scheme...



[*] Master key attack results:


List of encodings:
         k0 : alpha_i + b*r + b1/(bp + x)
         k1 : b*r - b1*rp
         k2 : b1*(rp + 1/(bp + x))

Structure of CA/AAs:
        Contents of the CA MPK encodings: []
        Contents of the AA MPK encodings: [alpha_i, bp]

[*] Master key attack found: 1*k0 + -1*k1 + -1*k2
```

### Attacking YJ12

The MA-ABE YJ12 scheme [@yj12] consists of a CA and several AAs.

- During the `Setup` algorithm, the CA generates the system parameters and registers AAs and users. Particularly for the users, it generates an UID \(u \in_R Z_p\) and a public key \(PK_{UID} = g^u\). The `OwnerSetup` algorithm generates the parameters \(\beta\) and \(\r \in_R Z_p\) and obtains the so called \(SK_o\) pair consisting of \(g^{1/\beta}\) and \(r/\beta\). This parameter is sent to every attribute-authority. The CA is fully trusted in the YJ12 scheme.
  
- Finally, every AA generates the public key of each attribute it manages. 

- During the key generation algorithm, each AA generates an attribute-independent key part \(PK_{UID}^{\frac{r}{\beta}}\cdot g^{\frac{\alpha_i}{\beta}}\) which is equivalent to \(\frac{x\cdot r + \alpha_i}{\beta}\).

#### Obtaining the involved encodings

- The CA has generated every public key for the users and contains the parameter u. However it is fully trusted and we don't consider the corruption of the CA.
- Each AA contains \(\frac{1}{\beta}\) and \(\frac{r}{\beta}\), which we rename to 
\(\frac{1}{bp}\) and \(\frac{b}{bp}\) respectively.
- The attribute-independent encodings from key generation are: \(\frac{r\cdot b + \alpha_i}{bp}\) and \(PK_{UID}: r\).

#### Generating inputs for ACABELLA

In this case, the idea is to corrupt one AA \(j\) and use the obtained value \(b/bp\) to attack another authority \(i\), using the mixed AA corruption model. In this case, we can use the following JSON input file:

```json
{
    "scheme_id": "yj12",
    "analysis": "master_key",
    "k": ["r * b / bp + alpha_i/bp", "r"],
    "master_key": "alpha_i",
    "unknown_vars" :  ["alpha_i", "r"],
    "corruption_model" : "mixed_AA_corr",
    "corruptable_vars": [ { "type":"MPK_AA", "var":"b/bp" }],
    "MPK_CA": ["r"],
    "MPK_AA": ["alpha_i", "b/bp"],
    "MPK_vars": [],
    "GP_vars": ["b", "bp"]
}
```

which produces the following attack:

```
[*] ACABELLA cmd tool


[*] Analyzing scheme...



[*] Master key attack results:


List of encodings:
         k0[i] : alpha_i/bp + b*r/bp
         k1[i] : r
         gp : b
         gp : bp

For the corruption of an attribute authority AA[j] and attacking an attribute authority AA[i].

Structure of CA/AAs:
        Contents of the CA MPK encodings: [r]
        Contents of the AA MPK encodings: [alpha_i, b/bp]

List of variables obtained via the corruption of AA[j]:
        b/bp from MPK_AA

[*] Master key attack with corruption found: bp*k0[i] + -b*k1[i]
```

### Advice on finding master key attacks on schemes

- We are interested in the attribute-independent key components generated during the key generation algorithm. 
  
- Schemes adding new capabilities such as traceability and outsourcing are typically prone to errors due to the number of exponents that are generated by the CAs/AAs that are not correctly validated.
  
- Sometimes, schemes that can be attacked via corruption are those where the CA generates exponents that are later utilized by AAs. In some cases, the CA can be corrupted and those values obtained and finally used to recover the master key of a AA. This is the case of the MGZ19 scheme.

- Other times, the CA can kept values that we can use to recover the master key of an AA via a linear combination of encodings. In those cases, it's worth trying to find master key attacks involving the corruption of those values stored by the CA. See for instance the attack against LXXH16.

- Finally, it is possible to corrupt an attribute-authority \(AA_j\) and obtain certain parameter that can enable an attack on a second authority, \(AA_i\) and that allow us to recover its master key \(\alpha_i\). See for instance the YJ12 attack.

## Finding decryption attacks in ABE schemes

In this section we show, step by step, how to find decryption attacks in 
ABE schemes. First, we start by describing the JSON input file that
ACABELLA expects for looking for this type of attack.

### The JSON input for ACABELLA

XXX:TODO Move section from start.md here

In decryption attacks, the MPK value introduces the encodings in the matrix. When using  the AA extended corruption model, this value is equivalent to MPK_AAj. However the MPK_AAj input field is only use for adding descriptive information about the structure of an attribute authority. 

**Note**
> Take into account that both MPK_AAj and MPK_AAi do not insert any additional encoding into the matrix.

### Attacking CM14

The CM14 scheme [@cm14] is a multi-authority ABE where there are only distributed AAs and no CA.
During Setup, every authority generates a secret key consisting of \(\alpha_i\), \(\beta_i\) and for every attribte \(j\), \(t_j\).
The public key of every authority consists of the tuple \(e(g, g)^{\alpha_i}\), \(g^{\beta_i}\) and \(g^{t_j}\). Every user
of the system has an identifier (GID). This identifier is involved in the key components to link them to the user.

During key generation, the attribute-independent component is:

- \(D_o\) = \(H(GID)^{1/\beta_i} \cdot g^{\frac{\alpha_i}{\beta_i}}\)

During encryption, the attribute-independent component is \(\beta_i \cdot s\).

#### Obtaining the involved encodings

To obtain the involved key encodings, we take \(D_o\) and replace the hash of GID by
\(g^r\) and add the encoding \(g^r\). Then, we rename \(\beta_i\) as \(\beta_i\) and obtain: 
\((\frac{r + \alpha_i}{b_i}, r)\) as encodings. From the ciphertext encodings, we obtain
\((b_i \cdot s)\). And as MPK encodings, we obtain \(b_i\).

As unknown variables, we have: \(\alpha_i\), \(r\), \(s\), \(b_i\).

#### Generating inputs for ACABELLA

In this case, we can only perform an decryption attack with or without corruption. If we use corruption, we should use the `AA_extended` corruption model, based on the corruption of an attribute authority where we obtain one of its values (and possibly, key or ciphertext components) and on the use of the recovered parameters to attack an honest attribute authority.

Given on the encodings that we have obtained in the past section, we can prepare the following input to ACABELLA for a decryption attack without corruption:

```
{
    "scheme_id": "cm14",
    "analysis": "decryption",
    "k": ["(alpha_i + r) / b", "r"],
    "c": ["s * b"],
    "mpk": ["b"],
    "gp": [],
    "key" : "alpha_i * s",
    "unknown_vars" :  ["alpha_i", "r", "s", "b"],
    "corruption_model": "NoCorruption",
    "corruptable_vars": [],
    "MPK_AAi": [],
    "MPK_AAj": ["b"],
    "misc_vars": []
}
```

In this case, the output of ACABELLA is: 

```
[*] ACABELLA cmd tool


[*] Analyzing scheme...



[*] Decryption key attack results:

         k0 : (alpha_i + r)/b
         k1 : r
         c0 : b*s
         mpk0 : b

Structure of CA/AAs:

[!] No decryption attack found
```

We can also try the AA_extended corruption model. We'll suppose we obtain the \(b_i\) parameter of a corrupted authority \(AA_i\), \(b_2\). Then, we'll obtain ciphertext encodings from that authority too. The goal is to attack, using those encodings, a honest authority \(AA_j\). We prepare the following input for ACABELLA:

```
{
    "scheme_id": "cm14",
    "analysis": "decryption",
    "k": ["(alpha_i + r) / b", "r"],
    "c": ["s * b", "s * b2"],
    "mpk": ["b"],
    "gp": [],
    "key" : "alpha_i * s",
    "unknown_vars" :  ["alpha_i", "r", "s", "b"],
    "corruption_model": "AA_extended",
    "corruptable_vars": [
        { "type":"MPK_AAi", "var":"b2" }
         ],
    "MPK_AAi": ["b2"],
    "MPK_AAj": ["b"],
    "misc_vars": []
}
```

ACABELLA finds the following attack:

```
[*] ACABELLA cmd tool


[*] Analyzing scheme...



[*] Decryption key attack results:

List of encodings:
         k0[i]*c0 : s*(alpha_i + r)
         k1[i]*c1 : b2*r*s
         k1[i]*mpk1 : b2*r
         c0*mpk1 : b*b2*s
         c1*mpk0 : b*b2*s
         k[i]0 : (alpha_i + r)/b
         k[i]1 : r
         c0 : b*s
         c1 : b2*s
         mpk0 : b
         mpk1 : b2

For the corruption of an attribute authority AA[i] where c0 and c1 are obtained from different attribute authorities.

Structure of CA/AAs:
        Master key pair of AA[i]: mpk[i]: [b2]
        Master key pair of AA[j]: mpk[j]: [b]

List of variables obtained via corruption:
        b2 from MPK_AAi

[*] Decryption attack found: 1*k0[i]*c0 + -1/b2*k1[i]*c1
```

### Attacking PO17

The PO17 scheme [@po17] is a MA-ABE scheme with a similar structure as CM14.
It only consists of multiple attribute-authorities AA in a distributed
fashion. 

- During `Setup`, every attribute authority generates \(\alpha_i\), \(\beta_i\) and \(t_{i_k}\) (for every supported attribute \(k \in_R Z_p\) as the master secret key tuple MSK. The MPK of every authority consist then on \(X_i = g^{\beta_i}\) and \(Y_i = e(g, g)^{\alpha_i}\).  Moreover, for every attribute \(k\), an associated public key is generated as
\(T_{i, k} = g^{t_{i, k}}\). 

- The key generation component that is attribute-independent is \(SK_o^k = g^{\frac{\alpha_i - r_i}{\beta_i}}\).

- In the encryption process, the attribute-independent variables correspond to \(g^{\beta_i \cdot s}\). 

#### Obtaining the involved encodings

We rename the key generation component \(SK_o^k\) as \(\frac{\alpha_i - r}{b_i}\) and we 
add the corresponding encoding of \(g^r\), \(r\). From the ciphertext component, we rename it as \(b_i \cdot s\). Finally, we also add the MPK corresponding to the attribute authority to the encoding list.

#### Generating inputs for ACABELLA

We follow the same strategy as with the CM14 [@cm14] scheme, using the `AA_extended` corruption model. We create the following JSON input:

```
{
    "scheme_id": "po17",
    "analysis": "decryption",
    "k": ["(alpha_i - r) / b", "r"],
    "c": ["s * b", "s * b2"],
    "mpk": ["b"],
    "gp": [],
    "key" : "alpha_i * s",
    "unknown_vars" :  ["alpha_i", "r", "s", "b"],
    "corruption_model": "AA_extended",
    "corruptable_vars": [
        { "type":"MPK_AAi", "var":"b2" }
         ],
    "MPK_AAi": ["b2"],
    "MPK_AAj": ["b"],
    "misc_vars": []
}
```

and ACABELLA finds the following decryption attack:

```
[*] ACABELLA cmd tool


[*] Analyzing scheme...



[*] Decryption key attack results:

List of encodings:
         k0[i]*c0 : s*(alpha_i - r)
         k1[i]*c0 : b*r*s
         k0[i]*mpk0 : alpha_i - r
         k0[i]*mpk0 : alpha_i - r
         k1[i]*mpk0 : b*r
         k1[i]*mpk0 : b*r
         c0*mpk0 : b**2*s
         c0*mpk0 : b**2*s
         k[i]0 : (alpha_i - r)/b
         k[i]1 : r
         c0 : b*s
         mpk0 : b
         mpk0 : b

For the corruption of an attribute authority AA[i].

Structure of CA/AAs:
        Master key pair of AA[i]: mpk[i]: [b]

List of variables obtained via corruption:
        b from MPK_AAi

[*] Decryption attack found: 1*k0[i]*c0 + 1/b*k1[i]*c0
```

### Attacking NDCW15

The NDCW15 scheme [@ndcw15] is a CP-ABE scheme with traceability capabilities to detect illegal key redistribution. 

During `Setup`, the master key of the system, \(alpha_i\) is generated as well  as the corresponding public keys of every attribute in the system and the rest of public parameters (\(g^k\) for instance is relevant to us as it appears in one of the attribute-independent ciphertext components).

We are interested in the following key components, that are attribute-independent:

- \(K = g^{\frac{\alpha}{a + T}} \cdot (g^t)^{\frac{r}{a + T}}\)

for \(r \in_R Z_p^{*}\) and \(c \in_R Z_N\).

- \(L = g^c \cdot R_o\)

- \(L_p = g^{a\cdot c} \cdot Rp_o\)

where \(c\) is known by the user as well as \(T\).

From `Encryption`, we are interested in the following ciphertext encodings:

- \(C_0 = g^s\)
- \(C_1 = g^{a\cdot s}\)
- \(C_2 = g^{k \cdot s}\)

The user knows the following variables \(c\) (sent by the authority), \(t\) (generated by the user) and \(T\), that is part of one attribute-independent component of the key.

#### Obtaining the involved encodings

We rename the known variables by the user as \(x_i\) variables:

- \(c\) becomes \(x_1\)
- \(t\) becomes \(x_2\)
- \(T\) becomes \(T\)

The global parameters are renamed as:

- \(a\) becomes \(b_1\)
- \(k\) becomes \(b_2\)

Now, the corresponding key encodings are:

- \(\frac{\alpha + x_2 \cdot b_2}{b_1 + x_3}\)
- \(b_1 \cdot x_1\)

And the corresponding ciphertext encodings are:

- \(s\)
- \(b_1 \cdot s\)
- \(b_2 \cdot s\)

#### Generating inputs for ACABELLA

If we try a decryption attack without corruptin with the following input:

```
{
    "scheme_id": "ndcw15",
    "analysis": "decryption",
    "k": ["alpha * (1 / (b1 + x3)) + x2 * b2 * (1 / (b1 + x3))", "x1", "x1 * b1"],
    "c": ["s", "s * b1", "s * b2"],
    "mpk": [],
    "gp": ["b1", "b2", "1"],
    "key" : "alpha * s",
    "unknown_vars" :  ["alpha", "b1", "b2", "s"],
    "corruption_model": "NoCorruption",
    "corruptable_vars": [],
    "MPK_AAi": [],
    "MPK_AAj": [],
    "misc_vars": []
}
```

ACABELLA finds a decryption attack:

```
[*] ACABELLA cmd tool


[*] Analyzing scheme...



[*] Decryption key attack results:

List of encodings:
         k0*c0 : s*(alpha/(b1 + x3) + b2*x2/(b1 + x3))
         k0*c1 : b1*s*(alpha/(b1 + x3) + b2*x2/(b1 + x3))
         k1*c0 : s*x1
         k1*c1 : b1*s*x1
         k1*c2 : b2*s*x1
         k2*c0 : b1*s*x1
         k2*c1 : b1**2*s*x1
         k2*c2 : b1*b2*s*x1
         c0*gp0 : b1*s
         c0*gp1 : b2*s
         c0*gp2 : s
         c1*gp0 : b1**2*s
         c1*gp1 : b1*b2*s
         c1*gp2 : b1*s
         c2*gp0 : b1*b2*s
         c2*gp2 : b2*s
         k1*gp0 : b1*x1
         k1*gp1 : b2*x1
         k2*gp2 : b1*x1
         k0 : alpha/(b1 + x3) + b2*x2/(b1 + x3)
         k1 : x1
         k2 : b1*x1
         c0 : s
         c1 : b1*s
         c2 : b2*s
         gp0 : b1
         gp1 : b2
         gp2 : 1

[*] Decryption attack found: k0*c0*x3 + 1*k0*c1 + -x2/x1*k1*c2
```

### Attacking YJ14

The YJ14 scheme [@yj14] is a MA-ABE scheme that uses one central authority and several attribute authorities. The CA runs the Setup algorithm and registers users and AAs. The AAs are independents and generate attribute public and secret keys as well as revoke attributes. The scheme is cloud-centered and also consists of a cloud server, data owners (those who encrypt and store ciphertextexts in the cloud) as well as data consumers (or users, those who decrypt ciphertexts if they can fulfill an access policy).

During Setup, the CA generates  global master key comprised of \(a\), \(b \in_R Z_p\). It also publishes the global system parameters tuple, consisting of \(g\), \(g^a\), \(g^b\) and the hash function \(H\). During the user registration functionality, the CA generates \(u_{uid}\) and \(up_{uid} \in_R Z_p\) and generates the following keys:

- \(GSK_{uid} = u_{uid}\)
- \(GSKp_{uid} = up_{uid}\)
- \(GPK_{uid} = g^{u_{uid}}\)
- \(GPKp_{uid} = g^{up_{uid}}\)

It sends to the user \(GPK_{uid}\), \(GSKp_{uid}\) and a certificate.

It also generates an identifier, aid to every AA involved in the system.

Each \(AA_i\) generates the parameters: \(\alpha_i\), \(\beta_i\) and \(\gamma_i \in_R Z_p\).
The AA public key consists of \(e(g, g)^{\alpha_i}\), \(g^{\beta_i}\) and \(g^{\frac{1}{\beta_i}}\).

We are interested in the following key encodings, which are attribute-independent:

- \(K_0 = g^{\alpha_i} \cdot g^{a \cdot u_{uid}} \cdot g^{b \cdot t_{uid}}\)
- \(K_1 = g^{t_{uid}}\)

where \(t_{uid, aid}\) is generated \(\in_R Z_p\).

Finally, we are interested in the following ciphertext encodings (which are attribute-independent):

- \(C_p = g^s\)
- \(C_{pp} = g^{b \cdot s}\)

#### Obtaining the involved encodings

- We identify the \(a\) and \(b\) encodings that are part of the global parameters. We rename \(a\) to \(b\) and \(b\) to \(b_p\).
- The user secret key, \(u_{uid}\) parameter, is renamed it as \(x\). This parameter is kept secret and distributed in the attribute authorities.
- The key encodings are then \(\alpha_i + b\cdot x + b_p\cdot r\) and \(r\).
- The ciphertext encodings are \(s\) and \(b_p\cdot s\).
- The unkown variables in this case are `["alpha_i", "b", "bp", "r", "s", "x"]`.

#### Generating inputs for ACABELLA

Given the identified encodings, we can try to find a decryption attack with the following input:

```json
{
    "scheme_id": "yj14",
    "analysis": "decryption",
    "k": ["alpha_i + x * b + r * bp", "r"],
    "c": ["s", "s * bp"],
    "mpk": ["b", "bp"],
    "gp": [],
    "key" : "alpha_i * s",
    "unknown_vars" :  ["alpha_i", "b", "bp", "r", "s", "x"],
    "corruption_model": "NoCorruption",
    "corruptable_vars": [],    
    "MPK_AAi": ["alpha_i", "x"],
    "MPK_AAj": [],
    "misc_vars": ["x"]
}
```

However, ACABELLA doesn't find an attack:

```
[*] ACABELLA cmd tool


[*] Analyzing scheme...



[*] Decryption key attack results:

List of encodings:
         k1*c1 : bp*r*s
         k0 : alpha_i + b*x + bp*r
         k1 : r
         c0 : s
         c1 : bp*s
         mpk0 : b
         mpk1 : bp

Structure of CA/AAs:

[!] No decryption attack found
```

Every attribute authority in the system contains the user secret key \(u_{uid}\). It could be that having this parameter could enable a decryption attack. In order to check that, we can corrupt an \(AA_i\), obtain \(x\) and then launch an attack against an honest authority \(AA_j\). In this case, we'll use the `AA` corruption model (there is no CA involved), and we'll obtain the variable \(x\) from a corrupted authority:

```json
{
    "scheme_id": "yj14",
    "analysis": "decryption",
    "k": ["alpha_i + x * b + r * bp", "r"],
    "c": ["s", "s * bp"],
    "mpk": ["b", "bp"],
    "gp": [],
    "key" : "alpha_i * s",
    "unknown_vars" :  ["alpha_i", "b", "bp", "r", "s", "x"],
    "corruption_model": "AA",
    "corruptable_vars": [
        { "type":"misc", "var":"x" }
         ],    
    "MPK_AAi": ["alpha_i", "x"],
    "MPK_AAj": [],
    "misc_vars": ["x"]
}
```

In this case, ACABELLA shows us how to perform a decryption attack:

```bash
[*] ACABELLA cmd tool


[*] Analyzing scheme...



[*] Decryption key attack results:

List of encodings:
         k0[i]*c0 : s*(alpha_i + b*x + bp*r)
         k1[i]*c1 : bp*r*s
         c0*mpk0 : b*s
         c1*mpk0 : b*bp*s
         k[i]0 : alpha_i + b*x + bp*r
         k[i]1 : r
         c0 : s
         c1 : bp*s
         mpk0 : b
         mpk1 : bp

For the corruption of an attribute authority AA[i].

Structure of CA/AAs:
        Master key pair of AA[i]: mpk[i]: [alpha_i, x]

List of variables obtained via corruption:
        x from AAi

[*] Decryption attack found: 1*k0[i]*c0 + -1*k1[i]*c1 + -x*c0*mpk0
```

### Attacking YJR13

The YJR13 scheme [@yjr13] is a multi-authority scheme that uses a CA and several attribute authorities. The problem of this scheme, as we'll see is that the user knows two exponents that enable it to perform a decryption attack without the need of corruption.

- The CA, during `Setup`, generates \(a \in_R Z_p\) as master key and publshes \(g^a\) as part of the system parameters.
- During the user registration, the CA generates \(GPK_{uid} = g^{u_{uid}}\) and \(GSK_{uid} = z_{uid}\) via \(u_{uid}\) and \(z_{uid} \in_R Z_p\). In this scheme, the user knows \(z_{uid}\) a well as its uid (used as \(u_i\) in the scheme).
- The AAs, during `Setup`, generate \(\alpha_i\), \(\beta_i\) and \(\gamma_i \in_R Z_p\) as secret key and publish as public key: \(e(g, g)^{\alpha_i}\), \(g^{\frac{1}{\beta_i}}\), \(g^{\frac{\gamma_i}{\beta_i}}\).
- During key generation, the followign attribute-independent components are generated: \(K_i = g^{\frac{\alpha_i}{z_j}}\cdot g^{a\cdot u_i}\cdot g^{\frac{a}{\beta_i}\cdot t_i}\), \(L_i = g^{\frac{\beta_i}{z_i}\cdot t_i}\) and \(R_i = g^{a\cdot t_i}\)
for \(t_i \in_R Z_p\).
- We are interested in the following attribute-independent components generated during encryption: \(C_p = g^s\) and \(C_{pp} = g^{\frac{s}{\beta_i}}\).

#### Obtaining the involved encodings

- We know that the user has \(z_i\), that we rename as \(x_1\) and \(u_i\), renamed as \(x_2\).
- The random exponent \(t_i\) is renamed as \(r_i\).
- The key encodings are then: \(\frac{\alpha_i}{x_1} + b\cdot x_2 + \frac{b}{b_i}\cdot r\), \(\frac{b_i}{r}\) and \(b\cdot r\).
- The global parameter \(a\), generated by the CA is also involved in our analysis and we rename it as \(b\).
- The MPK triple of every attribute authority i consists of \(\alpha_i\), \(\beta_i\) (renamed as \(b_i\)) and \(\gamma_i\), renamed as \(b_{pp}\).
- The ciphertex-related encodings are \(s\) and \(\frac{s}{b_i}\).

#### Generating inputs for ACABELLA

Since the user knows already two exponents in the scheme, we can try to find an attack without corruption using the following input:

```json
{
    "scheme_id": "yjr13",
    "analysis": "decryption",
    "k": ["alpha_i * (1 / x1) + x2 * b + r * (b / bp)", "r * bp * (1 / x1)", "r*b"],
    "c": ["s", "s / bp"],
    "mpk": ["bp"],
    "gp": ["b"],
    "key" : "alpha_i * s",
    "unknown_vars" :  ["alpha_i", "r", "s", "b", "bp"],
    "corruption_model": "NoCorruption",
    "corruptable_vars": [],    
    "MPK_AAi": ["alpha_i", "bp"],
    "MPK_AAj": [],
    "misc_vars": ["x1", "x2"]
}
```

ACABELLA finds the following attack:

```
[*] ACABELLA cmd tool


[*] Analyzing scheme...



[*] Decryption key attack results:

List of encodings:
         k0*c0 : s*(alpha_i/x1 + b*x2 + b*r/bp)
         k2*c1 : b*r*s/bp
         k2*mpk0 : b*bp*r
         c0*gp0 : b*s
         c1*gp0 : b*s/bp
         k1*gp0 : b*bp*r/x1
         k0 : alpha_i/x1 + b*x2 + b*r/bp
         k1 : bp*r/x1
         k2 : b*r
         c0 : s
         c1 : s/bp
         mpk0 : bp
         gp0 : b

Structure of CA/AAs:

[*] Decryption attack found: k0*c0*x1 + -x1*k2*c1 + -x1*x2*c0*gp0
```

## Advice on finding decryption attacks

- Sometimes, it is possible to corrupt an attribute authority and obtain a variable, that, together
with an ciphertext component from the same attribute, allow us to attack an honest attribute authority.
See for instance the attack against the CM14 and PO17 schemes.

# References

